Feeding my body has been a lifelong education.
Beginning with high protein diets in the 1970's,
followed by 20 years of vegetarianism,
and then a balance between the two.
And now my body's crying out for more greens.
Indeed, greens have become big business.
But it hasn't been until now that I've been motivated
to do an interview on them.
Billy Merritt exemplifies the shining health of someone
who is dedicated to consuming greens and super foods.
Today he formulates and sells his own,
which I sampled at the Green Living Expo
and was euphoric over, literally.
We visited him to find out more about the subject
in Topanga Canyon.
(light soothing music)
Billy, alchemy comes to mind when I think about the affect
that your greens that you have produced have on me.
And I've done commentary on this before.
It's really kind of arising in consciousness,
the notion that our bodies are craving greens.
And before we get into what you've done to these
to make them so magical,
let's talk a little bit about your own journey into greens
and health and awareness and consciousness.
And I know everybody looking at you thinks,
"He's 22 years old, what could he possibly know?"
And it's like some other people I've interviewed,
who also live this life style,
you're just incredibly healthy and youthful.
So let's talk about your journey a bit into the awareness
of health and nutrition and spirit.
Great.
Ready when you are.
Go for it.
Okay. (laughs)
So, where did this part of the journey begin?
I know we can't go all the way back to birth, but
(Billy laughs) when did you become aware
that your body was really craving certain nutrients,
and that these were having a profound effect on you
and that this was going to be your dharma?
Oh, good question, okay, I can start there.
Yeah.
Because there are actually many ways I could answer this,
and I think I'll just answer it in...
Well, it's gonna have some emotion, I'll tell you that.
That's okay.
That when health just totally fails,
it kicks us into a survival mode where it's like,
okay, it's either death
or we just learn to heal and figure this out.
And it was a number of years ago
that I was diagnosed as having brain tumors.
And was having seizures.
Every day.
And it progressively got worse and worse
to where I was having multiple seizures a day.
And thank the lord, knock on wood,
that they were mild seizures,
where I would just draw a blank for about 30 seconds.
But that...
What happened during that time is
I just hit the pause button on all other
ventures in life and focused 110% on healing.
And
it started with a lot more prayer, saying,
"Okay, God, what next, what do we do?
"Anybody out there?
Hello?"
And that some real inspiration
and guidance came to me.
First of all, I was praying to heal, you know.
Okay, God, heal this suffering, this agony.
Heal these seizures, these tumors.
And the healing didn't come just like
turning on a switch.
I mean, really, some could argue,
the healing has never really come.
What I've really come to understand in all of this is that
healing is a constant balance and re-balancing.
That what I've really come to realize is also that
we are just blessed with the most incredible resources.
(reporter vocalizes agreement)
That the holy spirit is like, "What do you need?
I got some treasure here for you."
And that I developed a fascination,
this real curiosity,
with the nutritional elements, because again,
when I, years ago, started making my own food,
even though it was just peanut butter and jelly and pasta,
it was better.
And again, some enlightenment happened there.
And it actually, the changes snowballed over years.
To where I began to eat healthier and healthier,
and would feel more of a difference.
And before long I was eating,
the majority of my diet was just
raw fruits and vegetables, super foods that just gave me
such an energy, a vigor, a vitality.
That I realized, okay, this is something that needs to
be a real priority in our lives.
That we can have this just invaluable life force.
That just, we feel so good.
And so...
Going back to the past again,
I realized that, okay,
I'm on this healing journey and...
What were some of the insights
that you were being given through this
that you put into practice for yourself?
The whole notion of brain tumors and seizures
and everything I find fascinating anyway.
There are a lot of other things going on often times
when a person experiences this.
Yes.
Yeah, rewiring of all kinds, and--
Right, it was a whole rewiring of life.
Lifestyle, thought.
Just habits, everything.
Where I, first of all, I would just pray.
Hours, every day.
And that it started with just a little prayer and I noticed.
hey, I was a happier person.
That my prayer wasn't being answering
in the way I was expecting, but it was being answered.
And when I say pray, I would let God know my desires.
And then I would listen.
And I realized more and more, just in that time,
just how much value there is in listening.
That that's really a part that we leave out often.
That we need to let the universe know our desires,
what we want.
It's important to let the spirit know what we want in life,
but we also have to express our faith and expectancy
by just listening.
Or meditating.
And often times,
people think you have to go for another CAT scan
to hear the answer.
Right.
Instead of really listening.
Yeah.
And that what was interesting is
I would hear little bits and pieces of guidance
throughout the rest of the day.
When I would listen, I wouldn't necessarily hear anything,
I wouldn't hear angel voices.
Sometimes I did, but few and far between.
But I would, later in the day,
often times just get a really strong hunch
An unusually powerful inspiration, intuition.
Like this angel feeling.
And it's hard to describe,
but it has just so much meaning in my life right now.
That it's gotten me from where I was there to here.
To really just being able to turn this agony and suffering
into an incredible channel of healing
for myself and many people.
Well, I think that's why they're drawn to you.
You opened up, it's almost as though you really
integrated your true self in with your physical reality.
And beyond.
Exactly.
Well said, that I just was better able to
identify with my spiritual identity.
And that when you start there,
again, you just become a better listener to those voices.
Those hunches, those instincts
that push you and pull you in the right direction.
Where I'll just get that hunch, go right.
Go left.
Do this.
Here's where the story actually gets really interesting.
I wasn't gonna tell you this part, but okay, why not.
Please do.
It's entertaining anyway.
And that I tried with a number of herbs
and healing practices and super foods
to heal naturally.
And to be honest, I even tried the drugs.
I tried anti-seizure drugs.
I looked into brain surgery.
And nothing was working, nothing.
Health got a little better, a little more stable.
And in retrospect, I think it was actually
just that quiet time in the morning every day,
where I would just really sit and be very still.
It's actually known that when you do that,
when you meditate or are just sitting quietly,
that your neurological system
does go through a metabolic change.
It does, and it goes into
more of a balanced state.
Yes.
Yeah, your brain chemistry actually has been tested
to shift dramatically.
Where it's incredibly balancing and enriching
and therapeutic and restful for the body.
So I highly recommend that every day.
(laughs)
I can tell, and I agree with you.
Yes, yes.
I mean, if I don't meditate,
I'll probably still will get through the day,
but there will generally be a little more agony.
(laughs)
Maybe a little more drama.
So, what happened then?
The story, okay, right, okay.
So...
I had, again, been living a really healing lifestyle
and made some improvements, but still was unfit to work.
You know, I was--
Were you still having seizures?
Having a tough time, having seizures.
Fewer, but still having them.
And I was having a quiet night at home.
And I actually just heard this very still, small voice.
This was one of those few times
where I've actually heard voices.
Probably only two times in my life.
But this was one of them.
And the voice said this:
"Just drop everything you're doing in life
and go to Napal."
I swear to God.
I believe it.
Okay.
Yeah.
And I did.
I said
okay.
I've done this,
so I totally get it.
Oh, okay.
(both laugh)
So, I did.
I just took care of all my bank accounts
and got everything kind of situated.
And I subletted my house and I bought a plane ticket.
One way.
And flew six days later.
And going there not sure just what this was for.
Was I going to die in the mountains?
Was I going to meet a yogi that would heal me upon touch?
What would happen?
And I expected to heal.
I asked, I asked the spirit, okay, what are we going for?
He said, "You're gonna heal."
I said alright.
So, I was in Kathmandu.
I decided to go on a trek.
And it was actually a pretty light trek,
where you're just hiking from village to village.
In this region called the Himachal Pradesh,
I did this 300 mile loop over the period of 38 days.
Just hiking seven, eight miles a day
and then staying in guest houses.
And it was magical.
I just saw the best views in my life.
Met amazing travelers along the way.
Great culture, great local people.
Had some revelations, had come insights, but didn't heal.
It's time to come home, and I was actually flying home
through Bangkok, this is a few years ago,
and I don't know if you remember in the news
when there were all the protests in Bangkok,
in the airport.
And it actually
I do,
closed the airport.
we were, I think,
in Thailand
Are you serious?
right about that time, yes, we were.
We were (Billy laughs) north of there though, yeah.
Okay, so I was stuck, and for two weeks.
And so what do you do when you're stuck?
I took a train to Loas,
Luang Prabang, a village, a fishing village,
to spend those two weeks.
And I was the most bored and lonely I've been
in my entire life.
Totally depressed.
I wasn't able to come home for Thanksgiving.
And--
So you didn't feel like you were
on your healing journey anymore?
No.
And It was actually there,
in Luang Prabang,
that my seizures stopped, like that.
Interesting.
And was there anything that--
Yes.
Okay.
This is getting juicy, I wanna hear this.
And the local food.
It was that the majority of the diet
is pickled pork. (laughs)
Pickled pork, okay.
Pickled fish.
And I couldn't bring myself to eat it.
Yeah.
And so for those two weeks,
I ate nothing but wild coconuts.
That I picked.
(woman vocalizes fascination)
Interesting.
And the seizures stopped, like that.
Wow.
So it was pretty neat.
And I knew, instinctively, that it was because
I was just eating nothing but coconuts.
And I came back and actually,
when I came back to the United States a couple weeks later,
I researched it, and there's actually
a very little known therapy called the ketogenic diet.
It's a high fat diet where you are basically
surviving on nothing but fat.
And your body goes into a state of what's called ketosis.
And nobody knows why, but it has
as powerful, if not more powerful
of an anti-seizure property than any drug.
So--
Amazing.
Yes, yes.
And people should know about that.
Yes, they should.
Because there are--
Brain tumors are on the rise.
People need to know about this.
Yes, yes.
And seizures are to.
Yeah, exactly.
Especially in children.
Yeah.
Wow, so you were living on a pure coconut diet.
Now, were you eating the young coconuts
or the the mature coconuts?
Drinking the juice?
eating the mature flesh, the young flesh?
Eating the meat.
Both, young and mature coconuts?
Yeah.
Okay, so the seizures stopped.
And you must have, I mean,
talk about an epiphany.
Yes.
Yeah.
And so, now you fly home.
What happens after this?
You're studying about it?
Well, it was another level of passion
that I brought to life here.
Just that, hey, okay, this is how the spirit works.
And that I just continue to receive
that kind of guidance and inspiration.
To make changes in my business.
Or to do a retreat here in Topanga.
It's interesting.
We're all so in a steep part of learning curve
in life right now.
I haven't figured out all the answers.
And what I've come to realize is that healing is,
again, it's a constant balancing
and rebalancing that,
according to medical science, I still have tumors.
They can still be an interference.
And that according to some doctors, I'm lucky to be alive.
But I know that's not, it's not luck.
You know, I get those angel messages
that when we have a passion
to make life better here on planet Earth
for ourselves and for those around us,
that the spirit's like, okay,
well, that's when we know how to make matter move
and part and do its own thing.
And that
those kinds of facts and information
just don't have the same reality.
They do not.
I couldn't agree with you more
that this is the Holy Grail, as it were,
when people are looking for health.
you can run to a doctor or a guru
or you can run to a super food.
Nothing trumps the power
of having that direct connection with spirit.
That trumps everything, it can change everything.
In the face of, like you say, having,
supposed, still physical tumors sitting there
has nothing to do with your profile of health.
Yes.
I don't feel lucky to be sitting here, I feel blessed.
Yeah, it's a part of the plan.
Yeah, yeah.
Okay, now, you took that.
And we're in Topanga, in this beautiful, beautiful spot.
And a few miles from here as the crow flies,
you worked for quite a long time at an ashram.
Now, what happened between the time your seizures stopped,
you started really intensively studying nutrition,
you started working at the ashram, and formulating.
Let's talk about that part of the journey.
Okay.
Well, they're still over there,
and I definitely visit frequently.
I don't work full time at the ashram anymore.
I'm so busy here at the Infinity Health Retreat,
putting together programs, and also just
making sure the greens business is running A plus.
And so, I still visit. (laughs)
I'm sorry, what was your question?
What did you learn during all of the time
that you were spending doing these formulations
and tinkering and playing
Oh, okay.
with the foods for the clients though
that were on their healing journeys?
And also, give us some anecdotal information
of some of what you witnessed?
Right.
It was such an awesome experience for just learning
and watching how nutrition can just
so dramatically impact our--
So, so what were your bases?
What were you playing with over there
as your basis for the Healing Diet?
I assume you were do everything.
Cancers, everything, right?
Well, here's the thing.
The ashram is a program where people really come
to just ramp up their fitness.
That it's therapeutic and people come
with various ailments that they're trying to heal.
But it's more fitness.
There's definitely a powerful element of detox.
But people are really trying to
just improve every organ action and function.
They're just trying to come and really get fit.
Up their vitality.
Yeah.
And so, it's a week long program
where people are, every day, just working out
from morning to evening with trainers.
And what I had the opportunity to do was
work there as a resident trainer,
where the majority of what I was doing was
mixing and matching different blends of super foods
and healing herbs.
And then would be serving them to the guests every day.
And each week, I would actually just fine tune
the formulation that I would be giving them.
I would add more of a particular herb or take something out.
And so, it was interesting.
I actually could see week to week some variation
in how much these healing super foods would impact people,
and take their energy and vitality and vigor
to another level.
And weeks that it wouldn't make a difference at all.
And it was able to really just sort of
fine tune these blends.
To optimize the benefits.
And could just see it in the people
as they'd be out on trail hiking,
how they would feel.
If people would be detoxing.
Many people would come and just kind of feel nauseous
Tuesday, Wednesday, middle of the week.
As their bodies are detoxifying
from caffeine, sugar.
Just junk food.
And that actually, just all the chlorophyll from the algaes
that I would add to my formula, and the enzymes,
would really help to minimize those effects.
So that people would,
detoxification does not have to entail suffering.
I really don't believe that.
Thank you for saying that.
Because I'm under that impression.
I've tried it a few times, it was painful.
Right.
Yeah, and I think that the strategies
that are often used now, where people are
doing these heroic juice fasts and cleanses are,
they absolutely entail some agony.
And sure, it's arguable that they're character building,
but yes--
But you can do it another way, you're saying.
Yes, absolutely, absolutely.
Just living a more cleansing lifestyle in general.
And eating the cleaning foods.
And really just taking it to another level
with your overall lifestyle,
so you don't have to do this crazy swinging back and forth
between heroic detoxes and then--
Over consumption.
Debaucherous retoxes.
Exactly.
You know, it's kind of, it's just this--
And we know people that do that.
Yes, yes.
Yeah, moderation is key here.
And some education.
And did you find it in that,
because you ended up in this field
where you're really focused heavily on greens,
Billy's Greens,
where did the chlorophyll, and the E3 live,
and the algaes, where did everything,
how does that play into it?
What have you noticed?
I mean, obviously, you've noticed a lot,
because this is your business.
Well, I would have to say that I feel strongly
algae is the single most important
super food blend in my formula.
That I really, deeply believe in the algaes.
That they are tremendously cleansing,
balancing, nourishing foods.
That first of all, it's, I think, helpful to consider
that algae was the first life on Earth.
And this it's just a blend of sunlight,
water, temperature, minerals.
And that it just produces, voila, life.
That's wonderful.
It is.
And that there are many kinds of algae, of course.
But that...
Algae's like spirulina and chlorella
and klamath lake algae have such marvelous impact.
that it's the chlorophyll that makes it so dark green.
Like all living green things.
Leaves, grass, it's all chlorophyll that makes it green.
And chlorophyll is just,
is body cleanser number one.
That chlorophyll is a strong, ionically charged molecule.
That when you're taking it internally from
green juices, algaes,
green vegetables, leafy greens,
that it does really pull things out of the body
that just don't really belong there.
And it's really helping to bring oxygen in.
Oxygen is the single most important thing
we put into our bodies.
Absolutely, and this has to be
the primary healing component of it.
It is.
Just getting oxygen back into the cells.
Right, right.
Its pulling the funk out,
and putting the good stuff back in.
That oxygen is number one.
And that, thank goodness,
we're just swimming in an ocean of oxygen, of course.
And we'll always have enough.
But we do get oxygen from foods as well.
And that
algae does play into the overall
oxygen saturation optimization, and--
And you must have been watching this
in the clients you were working with
as they were optimizing their health and their performance.
I could see a difference in their performance.
People would hike better.
The program has some agony, I don't wanna. (laughs)
Yeah, I mean, we're not focused on that.
I just kinda wanted to see
what you noticed by way of improvement.
Right, well, less agony. (laughs)
Yeah, less agony, there you go.
Okay.
So.
Less agony.
Yes, people would be able to just hike.
They had more energy.
(woman vocalizes understanding)
Yeah, so.
Very good.
And then, any kind of healing properties
that were undertones to those stories?
Well, since, also, oxygen is the single most
alkaline forming thing,
getting more oxygen into our bloodstream,
into our tissues, into our bodies is crucial
for all healing.
Healing all malaties in life.
So oxygen is number one.
That it's the energizer, it's the revitalizer.
It's also the healer.
That it's really just the most important thing
we're putting into our bodies for every organ action
and function, for everything.
And I really am just touched
by the message from that.
That it's the invisible things that impact us most.
Yes, it is.
So it comes back to our thought.
And just, anyway, you know what I love to talk about.
Yeah, I know what you're saying.
All the invisibles are factors that are
keeping us vital and alive.
And we're using physicality through foods and the like.
Yes.
To be able to transfer this into our system
and cells.
We're using
the tools that the invisible is blessing us with to use.
Yes.
The invisible's saying, "Here, use this, do this,
try this tool, use this super food, take this herb."
Yes, and one thing I notice with people who do
and have really committed to having
a lot of oxygen saturated foods,
i.e. greens in particular,
in their diets is, it does seem to have this,
this is kind of the big deal now because the baby boomers
are afraid of getting old and wrinkled and so forth,
so anti-aging has become a big subject.
But the reality is, having oxygen in your system
is the number one way to slow down the process
of the body, essentially, degenerating.
Right.
That's why all you guys look so young.
So, moral of the story is (woman laughs)
breath a lot.
Breath a lot. (both laugh)
Breath a lot.
And consume foods that allow your body to breath
in a different way, and allow your immune system
to function, and inflammation to be reduced or eliminated.
Equally important.
Yeah, all of the above.
There's something about your greens though
that are quite different.
I've done a number of different kinds of greens.
Some of them are really quite lovely,
and do have energizing properties to them, but,
and I don't wanna make this sound like an infomercial,
but the reason I wanted to do this interview with you
is 'cause I'm fully aware that this oxygenation problem
is a big issue for humanity.
We're going through big changes.
We need to be optimized on every level
to be abe to maintain our immune systems now.
And when I met you just a little over a month ago,
you wanna shoo him away, (both laugh)
when I met you a little over a month ago
at the Greens Festival in San Francisco,
first of all, it was your vitality
and the partner that you work with in this,
and Mario's vitality that really shown through.
And caught my attention enough
to take a little drink of your greens.
And I thought, "Now is the time to cover this subject."
And that's why we're here.
There was a euphoric quality about how I felt
after drinking them.
Now, what is it you've been doing and tinkering with,
my allusion to alchemy in the beginning,
what have you been doing?
What are you putting in here to create this blend
that has this effect on myself and others?
Well, I'd love to take the credit for being able to
figure that out, but I can't.
It's mother nature, it's the spirit,
it's the help from the ashram.
Because what I would just get to do is
try different blends--
Right.
That, well, first of all,
each of the different blends in the formula
(woman vocalizes understanding)
and all of the super foods out there
that are in all of the formulas are all good.
Yes.
Now, I have to say that
nutrition is an individual thing.
That every body type is different.
And you have to see--
So, not everyone would feel euphoric
on your greens like I did?
Only 99%.
(laughs) 99, right.
Yes.
But actually there is just some truth
to diet being a totally unique thing.
That what healing super foods make you feel good
are gonna be different from
what would make somebody else feel good.
And that, again, there are many super foods that
are universal and that are good for everybody.
What are the unique properties?
You have a lot of different foods in there.
It's not just greens.
Right, right.
And they're obviously working synergistically.
Yes.
So explain that, what's going on?
You nailed it.
Why did you
choose it?
You nailed it
right there, it's a synergy.
That all of these foods individually, very, very powerful.
That individually, spirulina for example, just,
it's loaded in B12, beta-Carotene.
It has some phenylethylamine.
It's an incredibly detoxifying, balancing,
oxygen saturating food.
But blend that,
put that spirulina with some enzymes
and some probiotics, whoa.
Now we're talking like the big guns. (laughs)
Explain that,
explain how it works synergistically.
Big guns probably isn't the best way to refer to it.
No, that's okay.
(Billy laughs)
I think we all understand what you're saying.
Explain the synergy of that, and why that's so important.
Okay, here's the thing.
These foods, individually, are all very digestible.
But when you add some enzymes,
you're actually helping that food to break down more.
And to become even more bio-available.
It's why I also add the ginger.
Ginger fires up your spleen.
You spleen is like your body's heater.
You turn your spleen up,
it raises your whole body's temperature.
Actually, did you know low body temperature
is a problem for many people?
It's so easy to fix.
Mother Nature's like, "Here you go, try this.
Have this warm ginger tea."
Ginger, yeah.
Yeah, and then it raises your body's temperature
just enough so that you have warm hands and feet
all the time.
And here's the cool thing about adding it with other foods,
is that when you fire up your spleen,
it's like a pressure cooker under your stomach.
Your stomach better extracts nutrients
from all the other foods that you're having it with.
Oh, interesting, okay.
So, I know I'm telling you all my secrets now. (laughs)
But that's what I want to know.
We need to know the wherefore behind it.
And why.
That here's,
the thing is that I've been able to
get these blends of super foods just right
so there's a synergy, as you called it.
It's a synergistic blend.
Where all these foods are optimizing one another.
And, yes.
It's a whole
catalytic synergy.
Well, let's talk about the--
I could go on. (laughs)
I know you're excited, and this is good.
You love what you do.
But let's talk about the probiotic.
You said you add enzymes and probiotics.
So talk about that element of,
now how does that fit into this synergistic blend?
Well, really, so much of the formula
is targeted toward building digestive health.
(vocalizes agreement)
Which is where all health begins, isn't it?
It's one of the foundations.
Yeah.
It's like,
it's almost as pivotal as oxygen.
It's so crucial, because it's where
you're extracting nutrition, and also,
your body gets rid of 95% of it's toxicity
through the gastrointestinal system.
So you wanna optimize that.
You wanna have that healthy.
It's a great place to start for building,
and optimizing health on every level.
I, in fact, went, about 25 or 30 years ago,
I was in Germany in the forest. (laughs)
I'm interviewing a prominent physicist at the time,
who had been introducing
frequency types of modalities for healing,
but he was just a wild genius.
He's since passed on.
And at the end of our conversation he said,
"There's only one thing that matters.
Digestive systems have to be healthy."
And that is where all health begins.
And I never forgot that.
He was so passionate in what he knew,
and he was so brilliant.
I mean, a lot of his work has lived on.
And that's what he was saying too.
Yeah.
Yes.
And that's the part we ignore.
We just throw junk down there.
And then people throw, you know,
Ex-Lax or whatever behind it to make it move out and,
I mean, we'd handle it in such a horrible way.
It works, but it is going to entail more suffering.
It's such an abusive way.
Yes. (laughs)
So, you're looking at introducing these things in
so that our digestive system can very naturally start,
I assume, not only detoxing,
but maybe even repairing itself?
Getting stronger.
Yes.
Just better breaking down foods and eliminating.
(woman vocalizes agreement)
Yep.
And so, you add in there also,
again, I noticed this because it's something
that I've been taking and just adore,
I believe you have some maca in there, don't you?
(Billy vocalizes confirmation)
Some maca.
Yes, that's right.
And other super foods
that really boost energy levels as well.
Yes, yeah, I'd be happy to talk
about any of the individual super foods.
Yeah, talk about it a little bit,
because we're all being exposed to them.
And I take it individually as a powder form
and shakes in the morning,
but let's talk about maca and some of the berries.
Because I think there's some confusion
around some of the berries.
Okay.
For example, like the acai
and also goji berries.
And so let's talk about berries and maca for a bit,
and what they add too.
Okay, we should, because they are important ingredients.
They are super foods that I believe in.
Now, maca, I put in there for just adrenal nourishment.
Maca can be used in a number of ways.
It's a natural energizer, it's quite a nice food.
What it is, what is maca.
It's a cruciferous vegetable root.
It comes from South America,
where it grows in the higher elevation regions.
Kind of like a potato.
And the local people eat it.
It's a regular part of their fare.
They just eat the whole food.
And in the western world, in the last decade,
it's become popular just because
it's a very nourishing food that,
you nourish your adrenals,
and that just helps boost your overall energy.
The way maca works is that it does have
a similar nutrient constituency of what your body
just naturally stores in your adrenals.
And so, your adrenals are just kind of like
your turbo in a way, it just gets your vitality up.
And that many of us use caffeine
to get that boost.
And it's working, caffeine is working in a different manner.
Caffeine is working by juicing your adrenals.
It's a stimulant.
Whereas maca is working by putting that nutrition back in.
One drains and the other feeds, yeah.
Now, there is number of different maca products out there,
where some of them are extracts that do work more
in a stimulant manner.
But the whole food option, in small amounts,
is just perfect nourishment for really just
nourishing your adrenals,
so you don't need those heroic stimulants anymore
to give that spark.
I think it's a great thing to have in the morning, I do.
I say maca, and if you want caffeine, just, less.
And the two together, I think, is just a more balanced fit.
Good, well, what about the goji berries now?
Or the berries, the acai or the goji.
Okay, so the exotic fruits in my formula,
the goji, the mangosteen, the acai,
the amla berries, these are important foods.
There is just a small amount in my formula
of those four exotic fruits.
They're in there, basically,
just to get some antioxidant value into the formula.
You're getting some antioxidants from
some of the other foods, but
the mangosteen, I've really fallen in love with all of them.
They all serve a very individual, unique purpose.
That just a little bit of those foods is just
such an incredible impact.
Why these foods in my formula have such an impact
is they're also extracts.
The other foods in my formula are the whole foods.
But the reason I use the extracts with the berries
is that adding the whole berry would actually
add some sugar to my formula.
And I don't want any sugar in my formula.
It's a zero sugar formula.
And so, these extract fruits
are just incredibly powerful
for reducing inflammation in the body.
That's really why I add antioxidants to my formulas.
To basically eliminate free radical activity in the body.
So...
One example was, with the mangosteen,
I actually had these because I was hiking
every day at the ashram.
I had these dun rashes on the backs of my hands
that wouldn't go away, I using vitamin E,
I was using sunscreens, sunblocks,
olive oil products, and nothing would take it away.
I start eating mangosteen,
and the free radical damage from the sun, boom, gone.
Oh, interesting.
It was awesome, it was awesome.
So that's how I fell in love with that one, but--
Okay, so we've got the antioxidants.
We have the symbiotic effect of the enzymes
and the probiotics with the greens,
oxygenating the body, dumping all the toxins from the body,
So--
Yeah, you got it.
You kinda have it.
I mean, and so,
personally, I'm really exciting to begin
the next phase of my own journey in this.
Because I've been a dabbler in greens for a long time,
but I haven't been super committed to them.
And I feel that the time has come
for me to make a committment.
Because I've been, just on an esoteric level,
in meditation, given information,
especially over the last year that it's,
that is what we're moving toward as a species.
And this is a really big part of it,
is to start incorporating greens in fluid form
regularly into the body.
And I see now, from this conversation,
why I've been given that information.
Our body's are starving for just this awesome nutrition.
That, yes, it's getting the right calories,
it's getting the right fuel,
but nutrients from super foods,
that nutrient density, that is energy.
Yes.
It is.
And it's optimizing our bodies to just be more efficient.
Yes.
And to just run better, smoother.
And that then you just don't need as much
of the other fuel, you know.
Your body has a more satisfied, satiated felling in general.
Just from getting the stuff that it's really craving
and hungry for.
Well, besides Cindy Crawford,
who's there saying, "Billy, thank you," (laughs)
tell us about maybe a couple of other instances
of people you've seen, that have contacted you,
and some of their healing experience
that's happened through this.
Oh, yeah.
I love anecdotes.
I tell you, you know, I do too.
I love it.
Just a couple, just share a couple.
'Cause I know we're almost out of time.
Okay, yeah, wow, this has flown.
So, I tell you, I love that more than anything,
getting
just stories from people.
How these formulas have just so dramatically
impacted their health, you know, it's not just my own story.
It's other people that say,
"I started taking this every day,"
and that, "I was suffering from this malady."
I've heard amazing feedback from, actually,
my vitamin C formula.
More stories with the greens, but just recently,
I've been hearing so many stories about the vitamin C.
And that, here's the thing, I really, really believe,
if I had to, actually, if you don't mind,
if I had to name a single most important nutrient,
I would say it's vitamin C.
I'm with you.
It's protection.
Yes.
That okay, so (laughs)
we named oxygen, that's way up there.
And that vitamin C is too, because here's the thing.
That vitamin C
builds your immune system.
And that, more than anything, we wanna revitalize
and get more oxygen, but we also wanna
just make that system protected and strong.
And that we do get vitamin C from foods,
but not like we do from super foods like camu camu,
acerola berry, amla berry.
That high vitamin C foods like strawberries and oranges
and even broccoli are respectable.
But to get to that level where we can really
just beat some maladies, where we can, like, kick butt
with some bacteria and viral infections is like
using these super food vitamin C ingredients.
And that what I've found is that...
I actually originally started working with
just ascorbic acid.
Like all the other vitamin C products,
ascorbic acid, it's a synthetically produced vitamin C.
Where, basically, okay, we look at the molecular structure
of vitamin C in these foods, and then we replicate it
using fermented corn products.
And it does produce ascorbic acid.
Now, ascorbic acid is actually only one
of many vitamin C bioflavonoids.
That we get many vitamin C bioflavonoids in foods.
Ascorbic acid just being one of many, okay.
So you're essentially capturing all of them?
Yes.
With the vitamin C formula.
Originally, I was interested in ascorbic acid,
which is what all the vitamin C products are right now.
And that yes, it is vitamin C, but it's only one
of the vitamin C bioflavonoids.
And I would compare it to calling
just a slice of strawberry the whole strawberry.
Or calling an orange peel the whole orange.
Where it's all the other
vitamin C bioflavonoids in those foods.
It's the whole synergy, the whole vitamin C compund
that is really what just kicks stuff out.
That really, the chemistry of is that
these whole vitamin C foods,
like berries, like camu camu,
like these super foods that I've using,
it boosts your glycothymine levels.
Which is ingredient number one
for getting your immune system way, way up.
And so,
where was I going
Yeah, well,
with all of this?
I was asking you
I forget, okay.
some of the
anecdotes from this, and you're excited.
Because you're finding
Oh, yeah, yeah.
that people are recently really responding
to the vitamin C and not just the greens, and--
A customer I talked to this morning says,
"So, a friend gave me the first bottle of your vitamin C.
I've been talking vitamin C products for many years."
You know, the vitamin C packets that you tear open
and they fizz up, and other ascorbic acid tablets.
And that when they have a cold,
they know that they take the vitamin C,
and they think that makes that a little shorter.
You know, the symptoms a little shorter.
And that what happened was, is they told me,
"Okay, I started feeling a sore throat.
"And I started taking your formula.
Bam, gone, it just kicked it right out."
And I said, "Yes, I love that."
That I really do genuinely believe that we can,
when it comes to our sore throats, and colds,
and things like that, that we can kick butt.
People just don't know that we have the tools
to really do it.
Absolutely, which is why I so badly
wanted to talked to you on camera.
Yeah, yeah, so anyway,
I'm very excited about my vitamin C right now.
Yeah.
Yeah. (laughs)
Very good.
Well, overall, because we are
about running out of time,
I find you very inspirational.
Because you're so passionate and pure
about what you're doing.
Thank you.
Which is why
I wanted to talk to you.
And I thank you for creating the kind of products
that you're creating, because we all need more of these.
I don't think there's a human being who can't benefit
from more of these super foods, as you're saying.
And on that note, is there any kind of final word
you'd like to share with us, regarding our health
and our responsibility for our health,
and the hope in being able to self-heal?
Yes.
I'm not sure what that is.
(both laugh)
I know I have something to say though.
Well, you're offering what you can
in the physical world.
You've shared your inspirational story,
your spirit speaking to you.
Anything else?
Well, ultimately, you know,
I have to hand all the spirit over to,
just, hi.
We have doggies here.
Yes.
(BIlly laughs)
Yes, my furry friends here
definitely get a lot of the credit.
And I have to hand all this,
all the credit over to the spirit, I really do.
That I met all the right people.
Had the right breaks.
And I know it's not chance, I know it's not coincidence.
That it was just spending hours of listening
and saying, "Okay, shepherd, show me.
"Holy spirit, what do I need to do?
"Do I need to go right here, do I need to go left?
I'm listening."
And again, I didn't always get the answers, but that
Just incredible things would show up.
And ideas would show up.
And I got to work at the ashram full time for so many years.
And really just precision tune my formulas there.
Thank you so much to the people over at the ashrmam.
Yes.
And it's also just exhilarating
to sit here with you and reflect on these things.
And it just makes me incredibly happy
to just stop work.
(laughs)
Yeah.
And just contemplate for a moment.
And share with you--
Your own journey.
Yeah, the whole story.
And just contemplate the big picture.
And it just makes you really realize that we're...
We are blessed.
We are, indeed.
Thank you so much for what you're offering.
And you have a long journey ahead, I'm sure.
And I'll be watching to see what you're developing
and working on as you go through your own journey.
(soothing music)
To connect with BIlly's greens,
you can go to InfinityGreens.com.
Meanwhile, I've been nudged in this direction
for more than a year now,
and have since made it a daily part of life.
And I'm experiencing heightened energy
and heightened awareness.
It may be different for you, but it can't hurt
to start getting more super green oxygen rich foods
wherever you can find them.
Until next time, thanks for watching CMN.